hey this is pressure Locker a party has
100 people who are either liars or truth
tellers Liars always lie and truth
tellers always speak the truth after the
party is over you ask each person how
many truth tellers did you shake hands
with each person gave a different answer
ranging from the numbers 0 to 99 the
answers were the whole numbers from 0 to
99 how many Liars were at the party give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for the solution
this logic problem seems impossible
because you do not know which people
shook hands with each other however we
can deduce from their answers how many
people at the party were truth tellers
and how many people are liars
we'll start by labeling each person will
say person 99 is the one who replied to
have shaken hands with 99 truth tellers
similarly person 98 said to have shaken
hands with 98 truth tellers will
continue this labeling all the way down
to person 0 who shook hands with zero
truth tellers let's consider first
person 99 imagined person 99 was a truth
teller what could we do deuce from that
if person 99 is a truth teller
that would mean person 99 must have
shaken hands with everyone else all
other 99 people at the party and because
that person said they shook hands with
99 truth tellers that means everyone
else at the party must also be a truth
teller
but person 99 would have then also shook
hands with person zero who is said to
have shaken hands with zero truth
tellers
how can person zero have shaken hands
with zero truth tellers and be a truth
teller one possibility is that ninety
nine and zero did not shake hands
this would mean person 99 is a liar
or person zero shook hands only with
Liars which would also mean person 99 is
a liar it's not logically possible for
person 99 to be a truth teller
therefore person 99 must be a liar we
will identify person 99 accordingly
now that we know person 99 is a liar
what else can we figure out let's look
at person 98 if person 98 is a truth
teller
that would mean person 98 shook hands
with persons 0 to 97 and all of those
people must be truth tellers we can make
this deduction because we know 99 is a
liar if you exclude person 99 we're left
with person 0 to 97 which are only 98
people so the only way person 98 could
be a truth teller and shake hands with
98 people is that person 98 would have
shaken hands with person 0 to 97 who
must all be true tellers but this would
mean person 98 also shook hands with
person 0 who is said to have shaken
hands with zero truth tellers once again
this is possible only if 98 and 0 did
not shake hands
which would make person 98 a liar or
person 0 shook hands only with Liars
which would once again mean person 98 is
a liar in either possibility we can
conclude person 98 is not a truth teller
and therefore person 90
must be a liar we will label person 98
accordingly now we can continue this
process we can inductively then prove
that persons 97 96 and so on all the way
down to person 1 must all be liars we'll
label each person accordingly
what about person 0 we've already
figured out that person's 1 to person 99
is a liar everyone else at the party is
a liar therefore person 0 necessarily
shake hands with only liars there are
zero truth tellers that person 0 can
shake hands with this means person 0 is
telling the truth and is therefore a
truth teller so the answer to this
problem is that there are 99 Liars
persons 1 to 99 and exactly 1 truth
teller which is person 0 did you figure
out this problem thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Locker
if you liked this video please check out
my books there links in the video
description